Situation:
Thankfully I do well financially in income, but I am a 29 (M) who just got engaged and live in a high COLA city. My fiancée works a good job as well and makes good money but I have been placed a burden for financial responsibilities for the entire family.

I am saving and working to build a financial future for my family where money won’t be our biggest worry like it was for me growing up. However, my childhood fears continue to persist due to my parents mismanagement and lack of liquidity. They have a good networth but unfortunately it’s all tied into their home. I told them to sell the home but with my parents recent medical diagnosis’ it had complicated that idea especially with me living in a different city and state. I have shelled out 75k in 5 years to help them out and that’s not enough because they need an extra 2k month to make their situation work. I mentioned this to my sister (granted I make 2-3x what she does), and she goes “they’re adults they’ll figure it out” while I’m stuck paying for things. To make matters worse, she buys a brand new car today and has no desire to help. What can I do?? I’m stressing out and just want her to help in some capacity, whether financially, physically being there or at least calling them. Any advice?

Anonymous Author's Advice:
You’re basically being cast as the family ATM because you happen to make the most money, and that’s not a sustainable role for anyone. I get wanting to make sure your parents are okay, especially with medical stuff going on, but $75k in five years plus another $2k a month on top? That’s literally going to ruin your ability to build your own life if you keep this up.

Your sister’s attitude sucks, but honestly, you’re not going to change her. Some siblings just check out the minute things get hard. The “they’re adults, they’ll figure it out” line is basically her telling you she doesn’t want to deal with any of this. And yeah, buying a brand new car while you’re drowning in their bills is tone-deaf, but you can scream into the void about it or accept that she’s not stepping up.

Right now you need to stop making your parents’ situation your personal responsibility. Set a hard number that you can afford and tell them that’s it. Not in a dramatic way, just literally: “I can do X per month, beyond that we need to explore other options.” Because there are other options — downsizing, tapping home equity, government programs, whatever. It can’t just be you endlessly bleeding money because your childhood fear is “my parents will go broke.” That fear is driving your decisions more than the reality.

And honestly, talk to your fiancée too, because this will become both of your problem if you don’t draw the line now. You’re allowed to have boundaries even if your parents are struggling. Doesn’t make you a bad son, it just means you aren’t willing to crash your own future to prop up theirs.

Your sister probably won’t help. That sucks, but that’s the hand you’ve got. So focus on what you control, not trying to guilt-trip her into being a different person. Boundaries are going to save your sanity here.
