Situation:
My father is overweight, smokes a lot, eats tons of sugar and junk food. He has a few health issues, like high blood pressure, and he has to take pills, but he almost never does it, claiming that he is feeling fine, that he is feeling young and healthy (he is 63 yo). He lives with my mother and sister, and they often have fights with him about his health. But nothing works. He just doesn't care about himself.

Yesterday he had a mini stroke. It was pretty serious. He is more or less fine now and feeling much better. My mother visited him and asked him why he thinks he had a mini stroke. He immediately got super defensive, started to shout at my mother and again started talking about that he is fine and nothing serious happened. He even asked to bring him cigarettes (probably his mental state has not yet recovered...)

We talked to him a lot in the past, trying to explain that we care about him and that it's super important to at least eat less sugar with his health issues. Also doctors talked to him about that. But he doesn't listen really. He is in full neglect.

I'd say he needs a psychological help at this point. But for that he needs to admit he has a problem, and that would apparently never happen.

So we are lost and don't know what to do and how to talk to him. The problem is also that I live in a different country from where my parents live and cannot really do much myself. But I'd be glad to hear any advice from redditors!

Anonymous Author's Advice:
Honestly, you’re dealing with a guy who has made it very clear he’s not going to change until something massive forces him to. A lot of older dudes are like this — stubborn as hell, convinced they’re invincible, and weirdly offended by the idea that their body isn’t 25 anymore. You can throw facts, feelings, doctors, near-death experiences at them and they’ll still go “nah I’m good.”

A mini stroke is usually the wake-up call moment, but if even that didn’t crack his denial, then yeah… you’re not going to logic him out of this. He’s defending his lifestyle like it’s part of his personality. That’s why he snaps the minute anyone tries to bring it up.

The hard part is accepting that you don’t get to “fix” him. Your mom and sister don’t either. All you can really do is protect yourselves from the fallout and stop making yourselves miserable trying to force a guy who isn’t interested. If he wants to smoke after a stroke, that’s a choice he’s making. A bad one, sure, but still his.

If he becomes an actual safety risk (confusion, worsening strokes, not able to care for himself), then you start looking at power-of-attorney stuff, or getting the doctor to flag it. But as long as he’s mentally competent, he has the right to treat his body like a trash fire.

The best move is lowering your expectations and changing how you talk to him. Stop trying to “convince” him — that just sets up the same fight every time. Keep conversations short, practical, and don’t poke the bear. Your mom and sister might need to do the same or they’re just going to burn out.

I know it feels awful to watch someone self-destruct, but you’re not going to strong-arm him into a lifestyle change. Some people don’t change until they’re hit with something they can’t ignore… and some people don’t change at all, even then.

You’re far away and there’s only so much you can do. Focus on supporting your mom and sister emotionally and let the doctors deal with him. If anything shifts, it’ll come from him, not from another round of family arguments.
